Nominal: "used when  either tha landing is farily small or there is good reason to believe that it is pretty much a single species stratum, or if there are no reasonable strata to borrow from" NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-240


Actual: "if a stratum has been sampled, then the stratum is coded as actual...If the stratum has been sampled in a different quarter, then the program determines which quarter to use. The program looks at the nearest quarter and selects the one with the most samples. This is recorded and the stratum is coded as Actual and stored in the scratch file. 

Borrow: "If the user chooses to borrow a composition they are asked what port and market category to use. The user cannot borrow from a different gear, and, as previously noted, age/length compositions are not stratified by quarter. The rule is that age/length compositions can be borrowed only from adjacent ports. The user is free to borrow from different market categories based on port biologist input and personal experience." ..."The user should never select a port complex to borrow from which is more than one port complex away. "


Pearson, Donald E and Glenn Almany. 1995.  Effectiveness of California’s Rockfish Port Sampling Program. NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-218. https://repository.library.noaa.gov/view/noaa/6217 


Pearson, Donald E. and Brenda Erwin. 1997. Documentation of California’s Commercial Market Sampling Data Entry and Expansion Programs. NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-240.

Pearson, Donald E., Brenda Erwin, and Meisha Key. 2008. Reliability of California’s Groundfish Landing Estimates from 1969-2006. NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-431.

Ralston, Steven E., Donald E. Pearson, John C. Field, and Meisha Key. 2010. Documentation of California Catch Reconstruction Project. NOAA-TM-NMFS-SWFSC-461.

Sen, A.R. 1986. Methodological problems in sampling commercial rockfish landings. Fish Bull. 84(2):409-421.



CALCOM source code definitions prior to 2003

The below source codes do not reflect methods currently in use, e.g. we do not borrow across gear groups. Years after 2002 will only include Actual, Nominal, and Borrowed T-1 or T-2 (borrowing from one or two ports away, not from alternate gears). Note that borrowing never occurs across Pt. Conception. For example, Santa Barbara borrows from the LA complex first, then the SD complex, but never from Morro Bay.

Source codes:
Borrowed T-1 = Borrowed one port away and/or alternate trawl gear,
Borrowed T-2 = Borrowed 2 ports away and possible from an alternate trawl gear,
Borrowed T-3 = Borrowed from a 3 year average composition,
Borrowed T-4 = Borrowed from a 3 year composition and a different port.
Borrowed T-5 = 2 port complexes away using a 3 year interval.
Borrowed T-6 = same port complex but a 3 year interval one up, or one down from the interval the actual landing is in.
Borrowed T-7 = used for Southern California only from 1978-1985 where borrowing used 1986-1991 samples.
Borrowed T-8 = borrowed from a different 3 year interval and 2 port complexes away.

If “(a)” in the source column appended to another source code, it indicates the landings were based on apportioning of unknown gear.
All borrowing is recorded in the COMP_EXPAND_DOCS table, if you want to investigate how estimates were derived for a given stratum.
