I place a file named California Estimates and Data Source 2003-2022 (11-18-2022).xlsx in the recreational folder of the google drive. The purpose of this file is to share details of gaps in CRFS sampling. The quick summary is that April through June 2020 is the only gap in the PR and PC estimates which is great news for rockfish stock assessments. The not so good news is that there have been sporadic disruptions to BB and MM sampling between 2018 and 2022 either due to budget restrictions or issues retaining enough CRFS samplers to collect the raw data.

 

I can give a tour of this Excel file during the next recreational data call if the group would like. But here are some quick tips for using the Excel file:

The Estimates worksheet describes who (PSFMC or CDFW) was responsible for generating CRFS estimates between 2004 and 2022. The Estimates worksheet also captures the fact that there is a gap in BB estimates in 2018 and 2019 due to a funding shortage.
The 2020 worksheet describes all the disruptions to sampling in 2020. Most importantly CRFS samplers were not completing interviews between April and June 2020 so there are no estimates for any modes. Another detail to point out is that there were some disruptions to MM sampling and estimates between July and September 2020. Scroll down to the bottom of the worksheet to see the district and month combinations impacted. Final note is BB sampling and estimation did not resume until November 2020 when funding was secured to fill this gap in coverage.
The 2021 worksheet describes continued disruptions to CRFS sampling that resulted from COVID (lack of PCO until August 2021) or from challenges related to retaining and hiring CRFS samplers (gaps in BB sampling in August and September). Scroll down to the bottom of the worksheet to see the district and month combinations impacted.
The 2022 worksheet describes how CRFS BB and MM sampling and estimation continued to be sporadically disrupted due to issues of staff retention and hiring. Orange cells indicates the modes impacted (BB and MM had to be cancelled in some district/month combinations due to insufficient staff. PR2 sampling was never fully cancelled but sample rate needed to be temporarily reduced in some areas due to insufficient staff). Scroll down to the bottom of the worksheet to see the district and month combinations impacted.
